SSL/TLS


 SSL (Secure Sockets Layer) - which layer of OSI model?

 TLS (Transport Layer Security)  - which layer of OSI model?

1) Difference b/w SSL and TLS?

   TLS uses stronger encryption algorithms and has the ability to work on different ports. 
   Additionally, TLS version 1.0 does not interoperate with SSL version 3.0.

2) Steps to apply for an SSL certificate?

   

3) How SSL works?

   SSL works mainly through using public/private key encryption on data

   Certificate - Trust by a 3rd party.


   PKI - Public Key Infrastructure. 

   OpenSSL

   chain of authorities

   Root cert authorities



   The browser you're using right now trusts a bunch of certificate authorities. Which bunch of certificate authorities - properly called a 'root certificate store' - is determined by your OS and browser:

intermediate certificate authority

   The unauthorized certificates were issued by Egypt-based MCS Holdings, an intermediate certificate authority that operated under the authority of CNNIC.



Digital Signature




4) Why do we use SSL/TLS ?


5) Self Signed Certificate / CA versus Trusted Certificate / CA


   
   Trusted CA root certificates are distributed with an Operating System.
   In Windows, Root CA certs reside in something called the Certificate Store. In the Mac, they are in the KeyChain. 
   Likely some RootCA certs (such as Google's) can be built into the Browser software


   Since all users have access to these trusted Root CA certs, they can validate external certificates that come from any organization that has had their 
   certificate signed by one of the trusted Root CAs (that they have in their local computer). If you self-sign your own certificate, no one can validate 
   your certificate because they do not have access to the root CA that signed your self-signed certificate; and even if you sent that to them, 
   it is not a publicly trusted CA and so no one should use it.

   Self-signed certs are good for many things (VPN services; use in an internal organization) but not for setting up a Web service for the public using SSL








